Now that we've laid out the projects and their priorities,
which can be kind of large and chunky,
we need to determine our team's tasks and priorities.
Smaller units of work.
So what we want to do is list the discrete features
that are required by the customer,
stakeholder or product manager for each project.
This includes priority and estimated hours to implement,
so now we're getting down to the actual hours and level of
effort that it will take to support the project.
We also may need to include in there some issue management or bugs.
Sometimes the work isn't just new work,
but it's also the remediation of work in the past,
such as fixing bugs and issues and things like that.
Also some of our work may include analysis or other non-development activities.
Go research that.
Go do some business analysis.
Maybe some performance tuning.
So it can be a variety of tasks, not just that directly support projects,
but also have to do with general housekeeping of the systems that you support.
Okay, now let's see an example of this.
Here's an example of aligning our daily work tasks and what we're going to
do here is we're going to come up with our task list,
the number of hours, and prioritize those.
Okay, so here are our IT projects.
We have project IR/1 which was focused on priority 1.
We also have project AC/2 which was also a priority 1,
and we have project AC/1 and AC/3 which were priority 2s,
and again we're not covering the backlog because those were backlogged.
They haven't been promoted yet to priority projects.
So the tasks for project IR/1 are as follows.
We want to analyze the PayPal API 24 hours.
The hours are in parentheses after the task's description.
We want to prototype PayPal API for 60 hours; determine multi-tender options,
32 hours, that's some analysis; update checkout page for multi-tender,
120 hours.
So we list the tasks in what we think is priority order and the number of
hours because those number of hours that are estimated helps gives us an
idea of how big something is and what might be the right order to do them in
and you do this as a team and then you come up with this list and this is
what will be worked on each day.
Now for project AC/2, the same.
In this case we're going to prototype the FedEx API, we think that's 20 hours.
We're going to prototype the UPS API for 60 hours.
Next is update/add stored procedures for shipping cost
algorithm; mainly that's 300 hours.
And then that's our task list for project AC/2.
And lastly, here are our tasks for the project AC/1 and AC/3.
Identify a lower priority task to perform when a team member is available.
So right here I'm giving you guidance and not the actual tasks.
So typically you want the team to always work on priority 1 items,
project IR/1 or project AC/2.
In the event they get stuck or something is a road block and they can't
get to those tasks for some good business reason,
you always to have a few tasks in your hip pocket,
so I just the priority 2 task as what they fall back on.
If something frees up under priority 1, then they go right back to priority 1.
So what you want to do in priority 2 is again,
identify lower priority tasks to perform when a team member is available.
Also,
you want to include a rough estimate and do not yet
assign unless someone is free.
So it's kind of like your list of items are still a good priority of items,
but unassigned.
Okay, so to recap, we identify tasks as a team,
we come up with rough estimates, we make assignments to a person on the team.
If more than one person is on a task,
I still like to be sure one and only one person is the
focal point and responsible to get it done,
though he or she may have help.
Then I meet each morning, briefly to discuss the progress,
issues or any priority changes, to ensure everyone is on track.
I call that a standup meeting.
I'm sure you've used that technique as well and we will discuss that in more
detail in the verbal communication module later in this course.
Tracking and managing tasks.
You have just done all this hard work to align your IT
projects with the business goals.
You have prioritized your tasks and you've assigned them out to your team.
Your team starts working on the tasks.
You meet each day to review the tasks and the progress of each task.
Now what?
How is the project doing?
Are you on target?
Are your estimates panning out?
If you track your time then you can measure your team's capacity.
By capacity I mean their ability to produce work, how much work can they do?
Without that feedback of measuring and tracking your time,
you won't have that information.
By using the capacity of your team, that is how much they can produce,
you can better provide estimates that will help you
prioritize tasks in the future.
When you track your time,
you can use the data for the historical capacity planning.
In other words, you can look back in time and see well,
if it take us 48 hours a year ago,
maybe it will take us 48 hours now for the same or similar task.
If you do not track your time,
you have lost two valuable inputs which will affect
the quality of your estimates.
One, the ability to measure your team's capacity,
just how much they can do in a given time frame,
and two, you have lost what you could have learned from the past.
You can measure, for example, that the average screen and code behind take,
say, 43-1/2 hours.
So for future estimates you can quickly use that as a yardstick to help you.
You might want to check out my other course,
Best Practices for Project Estimation.
And maybe one more, Project Management for Software Engineers,
where I go into more detail about tracking your time.
Alright, on the next slide,
let's cover a few more important reasons on why you should track your time.
Here are some more important reasons on why you should track your time.
It also could help you determine if your estimate was any good.
If a certain task was estimated at 16 hours,
actual hours after you completed say, were 21 hours,
so you're five hours over.
What does that mean?
Poor estimation technique?
Maybe.
More training needed?
Other issues?
Certainly.
All these are excellent feedback used to improve your estimation process.
Tracking time can help you track actuals to estimates.
Is your task on track?
If this task was estimated at 16 hours and your
developer says he has 4 hours used,
and is about 30% complete with his functionality,
that is good.
You're ahead of plan.
If he had used, say, 16 hours and was only 30% complete, whoa!
You're behind and you can look at why you're behind.
Maybe it's that I need more training, maybe the requirements weren't very good.
It will help you remediate issues right away.
Also, when you track time, you can find out issues earlier.
If an estimate was for 16 hours for a task and the
developer says he has used 12 hours, or 75% of those hours,
but is only 30% complete with its functionality,
then that is not good.
Your activity is actually behind plan,
but you can find out early and make a corrected action plan to make it better.
By tracking your time you can improve future estimates,
because you can look in the past because you've tracked your time,
you have your historical data,
and you can develop maybe some high and low estimated
brackets for future tasks or future projects to help you
do better high-level estimation.
Also, it enables solid reporting.
Okay,
you're going to have to give some data regarding the actuals and
hours to your management or your customer.
Where are you?
How many hours have you consumed?
Maybe you've consumed 225 hours of a 500-hour project.
Okay, I'm 45% in.
Great!
How else would you be able to say that or articulate
that your customer or manager.
Provides project summary.
Are you on track?
If not, maybe you need to readjust the estimates.
Maybe you need to readjust the schedule.
It gives you good feedback.
And lastly, it will keep you in business,
so whether you are an independent contractor or in corporate America,
all managers, team leaders,
or even independent contractors must regularly report true
and valid costs and schedule information. Your customers will greatly appreciate you and it builds trust.